# UnityCSharpFoundations
## Learn C# - Curriculum & Course Structure
We’re on the verge of a new industry. VR and AR developers cannot rely on drag-and-drop tools yet – but need to hardcode their applications. As VR/AR is mostly uncovered territory, you will need to showcase your curiosity, your willingness to deep-dive into coding problems, and your determination to stand up again after 100 failures.

# Chapter 1 - Intro to C#
## Essential
### How to Debug
#### How to debug a problem

##### What is debugging anyway?

*Debugging* Is the term used to find and fix problems originated in the code of the application or game you're building. It is a process that will help you find and fix issues when they arise (and they will, **often**). So learning how to approach them, is a great resource for anyone's programming career.

### What is the process then?

#### 1 - Make sure you understand what the problem is

Try to reproduce the issue, formulating the problem is one of the most important steps. Make sure you have a clear perspective on what the **expected behaviour** is, what the **current** behaviour is and who could be the responsable for that behaviour to work **correctly.**
### 2 - Follow the clues and READ the errors

When an error happens in a program, you'll be able to see what is known as the **Stack trace.** The stack trace is a "*report of the active stack frames at a certain point in time during the execution of a program".* In the case of C# this means you'll be able to see where a program had an error, and what methods were called when the error happened.
A lot of times the error message will also shed some light on what the error is and how it could be solved. 

### Logic Operators
This are operators that handle **Boolean** data types (True/False) 

### Unary Operator Or Not ( ! )

Reverses the value of the variable.
//Let's say you have a variable
bool gameisPaused = false;
//At this point the variable is false

gameisPaused = !gameisPaused;
//At this point the variable is true

### And operator (&&)

Returns true according to the logic table for the logical AND table. 

| A | B | A && B |
| --- | --- | --- |
| True | True | True |
| True | False | False  |
| False | True | False |
| False | False | False |

Note that the operator only returns true if **all the evaluated inputs are true.**

bool A = true;
bool B = false;
bool C = true;
bool D = true;

if(A && B){
	//Returns false
}
if(A && C){
	//Returns true
}
if(A && B && C){
	//Returns false
}
if((A && C) && (D && B)){
	//Returns false
}

### OR operator ( || )

Returns true according to the logic table for the logical ORtable. 

| A | B | A || B |
| --- | --- | --- |
| True | True | True |
| True | False | True |
| False | True | True |
| False | False | False |

Note that the operator only returns true if **at least one the evaluated inputs is true.**

bool A = true;
bool B = false;
bool C = true;
bool D = false;

if(A || B){
	//Returns true 
}
if(B || D){
	//Returns false
}
if(A || B || C){
	//Returns true
}
if((A && C) && (D && B)){
	//Returns true
}

### The Unity Console Window
The **Console** Window shows errors, warnings and other messages generated by Unity.

You can also show your own messages in the Console using the `[Debug](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/class-Debug.html)` class.

Everything that is written to the **Console Window** (by Unity, or your own code) is also written to a [Log File](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/LogFiles.html).

To open the Console from Unity’s main menu, select **Window > General > Console**.

**A.** The Console window menu has options for [opening Log files](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Console.html#LogFiles), controlling [how much of each message](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Console.html#LineCount) is visible in the list, and setting [stack trace](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Console.html#StackTraceLogging) options.

**B.** The Console **toolbar** has options for controlling how messages are displayed, and for [searching and filtering](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Console.html#Search) messages.

**C.** The Console list displays an entry for each logged message.Select a message to display its entire text in the detail area.You can choose how many lines of each message to display here.See [Adjusting the line count](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Console.html#LineCount), below, for further information.

**D.** The detail area shows the full text of the selected message.If [stack trace](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/Console.html#StackTraceLogging) is enabled, references to specific lines in code files show up as clickable links here.

## Additional Knowledge
### Unity [Attributes]
**[SerializeField]**
If you want to write better code, of course, one of the main points is Encapsulation. For example, if you have a variable, which you do not want to be accessed by another class, you mark it as private. In this case, it will not show up in the inspector. Because, Unity will only serialize public variables, so that they are being visible in the inspector and their values can be changed. To display a private field in the inspector, we can use SerializeField attribute.
//Visible and editable in the Unity Editor
public Transform MyTarget;

//Not visible in the editor. Can be only changed in the scope of this class
private string myPrivateName = "My Name";

//Visble and editable in Unity editor, but in runtime can only changed in the scope of this class
[SerializeField]
private float _timeToRun = 1;

**[Header]** 

Will create a visual distinction between attributes
[Header("Movement")]
[SerializeField]
private float walkSpeed= 1;
[SerializeField]
private float runSpeed= 1;
[Header("References")]
[SerializeField]
private Camera followerCamera;
[SerializeField]
private Transform followerTransform;

**[Range]**

Will transform a value into a slider in the Editor Window. It will prevent the value going over or under the specified values
public class ExampleClass:MonoBehaviour{

	[SerializeField]
	[Range(-10,10)]
	private float _Speed;

	[SerializeField]
	[Range(0,199)]
	private int _age;
	
}

### Access Modifiers
Access modifiers will determine the level of access a variable or method will have
#### Avaliable access modifiers

**Public:** The variable or method will be avaliable for other classes and through instances of the class

**Private:** The variable or method will be avaliable only to members of that same class

**Protected:** The variable or method will be avaliable only to members of that class OR classes that [inherit](https://www.notion.so/Inheritance-in-C-d1b95039545f4230ba8e88fccb0a7e2e?pvs=21) from it.
**Internal**: Similar to private, but methods and variables will be available to other classes in the same **namespace**

#### For more info

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/access-modifiers

### Random in Unity
The random library is a static class, with methods that are helpful in generating **pseudo-**random numbers. Some of it's useful methods are:

## Range

Has 2 overloads. 

#### Random.Range(int min, int max)

Useful to generate numbers to select from an array, or from a specific range of values. The Range its **non-inclusive,** so it's ideal when dealing with collections.
int selectedElement = elements[Random.Range(0,elements.Lenght)];
#### Random.Range(float min, float max)

Useful to generate a value in between 2 floating point values
cube.transform.localScale = Random.Range(0.3f, 1.0f) * Vector3.one;

#### Troubleshooting

If your console shows you a message along the lines of
"Ambigous reference between Unity.Random and System.Random"

It is because the System Namespace contains a Random library as well. There are 3 possible fixes:

- Remove "using System" from your file (only recommended if you're not using any methods or attributes from the System class).
- Wrap your statements with the UnityEngine directive.
    - Random.Range(0,10) ⇒ Becomes ⇒ UnityEngine.Random.Range(0,1)
- Add an alias to the beginning of your file
    - (Before the class declaration)
    - using Random = UnityEngine.Random;

#### Additional Information

https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Random.html

### Relational Operators

#### Definition

Following table shows all the relational operators supported by C#
Operator
Name
Description
==
Equal
Checks if the values of two operands are equal or not, if yes then condition becomes true.
Not to be confused with the ‘=’ assign operator
!=
Not Equal
Checks if the values of two operands are equal or not, if values are not equal then condition becomes true.
>
Less than
Checks if the value of left operand is greater than the value of right operand, if yes then condition becomes true.
<
More than
Checks if the value of left operand is less than the value of right operand, if yes then condition becomes true.
>>=
Less or equal than
Checks if the value of left operand is greater than or equal to the value of right operand, if yes then condition becomes true.
<=
More or equal than
Checks if the value of left operand is less than or equal to the value of right operand, if yes then condition becomes true.
